# "Princes"

In the endgame, these characters become relevant.

## House Gathellys

Among the large ducal houses of Llaigis, House Gathellys is notable for
the fairness of its heirs. The fame attached to appearances masks darker
secrets about House Gathellys - a situation that suits all Gathellyses
just fine.

House Gathellys longs to march upon the capital, to unseat the unworthy
King Hulit (and to purge his equally unfit heirs), and to build up
Llaigis into a fearsome power that could threaten even Ka-Adun. To this
end, they have plumbed the depths of Loag Krad for eight generations,
seeking out ancient magicks and treasures that could give them leverage
over the royal house of Llaigis.

Loag Krad began as a convenient jail for political prisoners - dedicated
cell blocks were sculpted in the shallower levels. But over time, as
House Gathellys grew infatuated with their dark ambitions, it became
a breeding ground for experiments - a place to banish entire families
and villages, or a final destination for enterprising young mages whose
proclivities were deemed a bit too dangerous for House Gathellys to
leave alone.

The sons of Gathellys are commonly referred to as "princes" even in the
capital of Gathis - so called for their regal looks.

## Prince Hervdon

Hervdon Gathellys, first son of Duke Gathellys, due to succeed the ducal
title, is distinguished by his academic ability. He serves as the eighth
warden of Loag Krad. Hervdon's passion for reading philosophy has led
him off the path of his house; he's quietly working with his younger
brother, Edroen, to implement reforms that would slowly empty out Loag
Krad, relocating all humans within their duchy.

Despite Hervdon's magical prowess and his wealth of knowledge, he can
be a bit awkward and unpersonable. His manner frequently leans too
heavily into the haughty manners of a high duke.

## Prince Edroen

Edroen Gathellys, second son of Duke Gathellys, has no outstanding
qualities. He is well-read and a competent mage, but does not exceed his
elder brother in either regard. Edroen is well-respected as a dutiful
assistant to the future duke of House Gathellys.

This is all a lie. Edroen is extremely well-versed in politics, warfare,
and magic. He almost certainly rivals (and possibly exceeds) Hervdon in
sorcery.
